## Explanations taken from the 3.6.12 release notes until a better description is available

Our second larger change is the move from an installer to a simple ZIP file. While this might complicate the use of MONICA for some, we think it will allow the standard use cases we see every day easier. Because there is no installation anymore, you can have as many versions of MONICA side by side. The downside is, that you have to make sure to point to the correct MONICA executable yourself, unless you use or adapt the included start script in the examples folder (projects/Hohenfinow2-single-run/run_monica.cmd). So you have two ways to use MONICA right now, you can just unzip the monica_wi64_3.6.12.zip file to any place you like and then (in a commandline) run the run_monica.cmd in the projects/Hohenfinow2-single-run folder. This cmd script will refer to the MONICA executable in the bin folder, besides the projects folder. You could also add the path to the bin folder to the PATH environment variable and the set the MONICA_PARAMETERS environment variable to the folder of the same name in the zip file or any other you might have. If you have an already existing installation you could also just keep everything the way it is and just copy and replace the files in the bin folder to the MONICA installation folder (usually %USER_PROFILE%\appdata\MONICA). This will allow you to keep on using MONICA as you did before. But we recommend switching to the new approach as many people anyway have multiple versions installed in irregular ways and directly refer to a particular MONICA in their scripts for running simulations. This will be now the default way of running simulations and only if you know how to do it, you will be able to run MONICA from any place in the system.